From time to time, Dr. Chris Brooks may want to share your work anonymously (via social media channels such as Twitter), to highlight some of the accomplishments of learners in this course.

If you agree that you are comfortable with instructor sharing your Assignment #4 as an example of great work, please type YES in the text box.
Yes

State the region and the domain category that your data sets are about (e.g., Chaohu, China and sports or athletics).
United States, Employment ad mortgage delinquency rate

Create a research question about the domain category and region that you identified.
How have the unemployment rate and mortgage delinquency prices changed over the last 26 years (1991-2017)? Is there any correlation between the two?

Provide at least two links to publicly accessible datasets. These could be links to files such as CSV or Excel files, or links to websites which might have data in tabular form, such as Wikipedia pages.
https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/DRSFRMACBS

https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/UNRATE#0

Upload an image which addresses your research question.

In addition to addressing your research question, this visual should address Cairo's principles of truthfulness, functionality, beauty, and insightfulness.
Attached

Provide a short (1-2 paragraphs) justification of how your visual addresses your research question.
This visualization was concerned with answering the question of how the unemployment rate and mortgage delinquency rates in the United States have changed over the last 26 years. We did not focus on any specific city or state while scrapping the data. Federal reserve bank of St. Louis was scraped for data concerning unemployment and delinquency rate across the US. Any data older than 1990 were dropped from the analysis in order to provide a more level comparison since we only had unemployment data from 1991 onward. A 26 year moving average was plotted to help the reader visualize how closely the rates have changed over the years.

The plot indicates that there were two peaks in unemployment rates around 1993 and 2010. Almost 10% people of the total population were unemployed around the year 2010. There can be multiple reasons behind this but one likely cause might the stock market crash in 2008. US economy was greatly affected because of this and lot of people lost their job. Eve though mortgage delinquency rate was quite low till 2005, it peaked from 2006 and was the highest in 2010 hitting almost 12% of the houses owned. It started to decrease around 2014 with unemployment rate. If we look at the two lines closely, we will see that even though there was a gap till 2007, they changed equally after that. There seems to be a correlation between the two. If someone doesn't have any job, it is quite difficult for them to pay their mortgage. We found 80% correlation between the two which supports our hypothesis.

As this assignment is for the whole course, you must incorporate and defend the principles discussed in the first week, specifically, Cairo’s principles of truth, beauty, function, and insight.

For each of the following prompts, please provide a response that links each principle to one or more elements of your visual.

    Describe your design choices for your visual in regards to Cairo's principle of truthfulness.
    Describe your design choices for your visual in regards to Cairo's principle of beauty.
    Describe your design choices for your visual in regards to Cairo's principle of functionality.
    Describe your design choices for your visual in regards to Cairo's principle of insightfulness. 

- This graph presents truthful information as the data were scrapped from a federal bank website which provides exact information as US census and bureau of employment.
- This plot satisfies Cairo's principle of beauty because it is a simple graph that shows all the information. It does not have extra grid lines or features that make a graph complicated.
- It is a completely functional graph because it doesn't have any embellishment and it is a direct representation of data.
- Lastly, it provides insightful information as it shows the necessary information that help readers to understand and relate to the figure. By looking at the figure, readers can easily get the value for a specific year and compare the two results (unemployment rate and mortgage delinquency rate).
